feat(reference): Add definition of early access releases (#1304)
camunda/camunda-platform-docs: docs/reference/early-access.md

---

Use early access releases to quickly learn about upcoming features and components.

## Types of early access releases

Selected Camunda features and components are released upfront as alpha or beta versions, to provide users the opportunity to test a feature and participate in the development by giving feedback prior to market launch (general availability, GA).

Early access releases are made available outside of the [release policy](/reference/release-policy.md).

### Alpha

Alpha features and components are introduced to gather early feedback from users. These features and components are still under heavy development, and are expected to change. These releases are intended only for non-production usages in trying out recent, potentially yet unfinished new features. Characteristics are:

- Not for production use
- APIs, dependencies and configuration are likely to change
- Not necessarily feature-complete
- May not be documented
- Updatability to a newer release not guaranteed
- Support based on SLAs agreed with you, but bugs are treated with the same priority as feature or help requests
- No maintenance service

> - On SaaS: no availability targets

Author: Yes, exactly

### Beta

> The scope of beta features and components is close enough to the targeted GA release that we are willing to provide update support, but we're still making the final changes. Therefore, it may still be missing some features. It comes with similar characteristics as an alpha release, but with following differences:

Reviewer: Is it not like this

```suggestion
The scope of beta features and components is close enough to the targeted GA release that we are willing to provide update support, but we're still making the final changes. Therefore, it may still be missing some features. It comes with the same characteristics as an alpha release, except for the following differences:
```

WDYT?

Author: Agree, this is better and clearer wording

- APIs, dependencies and configuration are not likely to change
- Potentially feature-complete

> - Can be updated to a newer release

Reviewer: I think we should not promise this. What about
```suggestion
- Can usually be updated to a newer release
```

Author: @MaxTru I assume we should call everything an "alpha" if we are not confident providing update support (which means it's not feature-complete). But I agree to weaken this statement for now, so we won't get into troubles, and if we established this categories, we could think about sharpening it in the future again :)

---
id: early-access
title: Early access
sidebar_label: Early access
description: "Use early access releases to quickly learn about upcoming features and components."
---

Use early access releases to quickly learn about upcoming features and components.

> ## Types of early access releases

Reviewer 2: How does a user know if a feature is alpha, beta, or GA?
Docs? Release notes? In-app "alpha" or "beta" tags?
I strongly recommend in-app alpha and beta tags, so users working on most recent monthly release know where there's a risk of something breaking

Author: Agree, I propose to use in-app tags in the handbook: https://confluence.camunda.com/display/HAN/Early+Access+Releases (The UI should reflect the alpha status)

We will introduce such a tag in Web Modeler SM

> Selected Camunda features and components are released upfront as alpha or beta versions, e.g., to provide users the opportunity to test a feature and participate in the development by giving feedback prior to market launch (general availability, GA).

Reviewer 2: It flows strangely with the ", e.g.,"
We should be able to clearly articulate why we're offering early access releases without having to say "example"

Author: Agreeing here

Early access releases are made available outside of the [release policy](/reference/release-policy.md).

### Alpha

> Alpha features and components are introduced to gather early feedback from users. These features and components are still under heavy development, and might change. These releases are intended only for non-production usages in trying out recent, potentially yet unfinished new features. Characteristics are:

Reviewer 2: Recommend strengthening the language for Alpha
"are expected to change"

- Not for production use
- Unstable, potentially causing performance issues
- APIs, dependencies and configuration are likely to change
- Not necessarily feature-complete
- May not be documented
- No update support guaranteed
- Not covered by service level agreements (SLAs), and no support obligations

### Beta

> The scope of beta features and components is close to that of the targeted GA release. A beta release may still be missing some features. Characteristics are:

Reviewer 2: It's important to highlight the differences. Here, the only practical difference is that update support is guaranteed.
"The scope of beta features and components is close enough to the targeted GA release that we are willing to provide update support, but we're still making the final changes. Therefore, it may still be missing some features. Characteristics are:"

Author: I like that one

- Not for production use
- Unstable, potentially causing performance issues
- APIs, dependencies and configuration are not likely to change
- Potentially feature-complete
- Update support provided
- Not covered by service level agreements (SLAs), and no support obligations

:::note

Even though there are no support obligations, customers can still provide feedback through their designated support channels, file issues in the respective [GitHub repositories](https://github.com/camunda), as well as submit questions and suggestions in the [Camunda Forum](https://forum.camunda.io/).

:::

### General Availability (GA)

> All features and components launched on the market that are not considered early access are considered generally available. Characteristics are:

Reviewer 2: I don't think a developer/user would consider themselves the "market".
How does the user know whether a feature is launched "on the market"?

Author: Good comment, I'll try to rephrase
